EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes		EU	Apple	$14.5bn in taxes	Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes	
Apple chief executive Tim Cook has attacked Brussels over the ruling		
Tim Cook has labelled the EU ruling that Apple should pay €13bn (£11bn) in Irish taxes “total political crap”, in an outspoken attack on Brussels.	B	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes
“I can't see another explanation for it,” Apple’s chief executive said in an interview with the Irish Independent.	I	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes
“This conclusion that the Commission has reached has no basis in law or in fact.	I	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes
So I think it clearly suggests that this is politics at play.	I	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes
“It’s total political crap.”     	I	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes
EU competition commissioner Margrethe Vestager  Credit: AP  Mr Cook was speaking after Margrethe Vestager, Europe’s competition commissioner, said Apple had enjoyed 25 years of "sweetheart deals" with the Irish state that allowed it to pay corporation tax as low as 0.005 per cent on its profits by shuffling all of its profits.	O	O
------------------------------------------------------
EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes		EU	Apple	$14.5bn in taxes	Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes		
After Apple, EU may focus on companies closer to home		
European Commissioner Margrethe Vestager gestures during a news conference on Ireland's tax dealings with Apple Inc at the European Commission in Brussels, Belgium August 30, 2016.	O	O
But Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager may be tempted to train her fire on European companies after a string of investigations of U.S. global giants.	O	O
The order to the iPhone maker to pay back taxes to Ireland on the grounds that Dublin illegally favored Apple with a tax regime that amounted to a competition-distorting subsidy was the biggest of 38 decisions by Vestager since the Commission began probing some 1,000 companies in up to 23 EU states in 2013.	O	O
Another U.S. firm, coffee chain Starbucks was ordered to repay up to 30 million euros to the Netherlands and a unit of Italy’s Fiat must hand a similar sum to Luxembourg.	O	O
In a separate case involving 35 firms in Belgium, many were not identified but some were also from the United States.	O	O
The Commission will not say when a decision is likely on two outstanding cases involving two more U.S. firms, Amazon and McDonald’s, both in Luxembourg.	O	O
Set alongside a series of high-profile antitrust probes into Google and Vestager has a case to answer on charges of anti-American activity — albeit one that she strenuously denies.	O	O
Nonetheless, people involved in competition law in Europe, many of whom declined to speak on the record for this story, reckon the Commission may choose a company closer to home for any major new inquiry.	B	EU
“It is quite obvious that the Commission will not be able to investigate 1,000 tax rulings.	B	EU
It will only go after manifest violations,” said Georg Berrisch, partner at law firm Baker Botts, who noted the fertile ground the Commission may have in evidence turned up in 2014 by leaked data from Luxembourg.	I	EU
“It will have to pick and choose a few cases, maybe look into European companies.	I	EU
Luxleaks mentioned several European companies having tax deals with Luxembourg,” Berrisch said.	I	EU
Vestager, arguably the most powerful official in the EU due to her individual power to rule on competition cases across the 28-nation bloc, makes no secret of her reliance on others at times to provide the evidence that can justify her inquiries.	O	O
It is unclear how many companies may face back tax demands in the end.	O	O
Given limited resources, officials and observers said, the Commission’s competition directorate is likely to focus on a fairly small number in the expectation that success — still to be tested in court — can deter others from going to extremes in reducing their global tax burdens.	B	EU
Jonas Koponen at law firm Linklaters called the massive tax demand for Apple a wake-up call for others to be wary of how political institutions, not just in Europe, were responding to popular pressure to gather more taxes from rich corporations and the danger that posed of legal turmoil and reputational damage.	B	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes	
Asked at a news conference on Tuesday whether it was fair to penalize a company which “felt that they were abiding by the rules” in agreeing a tax regime for its profits with Irish government, the straight-talking Dane said some should listen to their feelings more.	O	O
“If my effective tax rate would be 0.05 percent falling to 0.005 percent,” she said, “I would have felt that maybe I should have a second look at my tax bill.”.	O	O
------------------------------------------------------
EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes		EU	Apple	$14.5bn in taxes	Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes			
Apple tax ruling not an attack on US, says European commission chief		
Claims that an EU decision to present Apple with a €13bn (£11bn) tax bill was designed as an attack on the US have been rejected by the European commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker.	B	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes
Last week’s ruling that the American tech giant must settle the massive tax bill with Ireland has gone down badly in Washington, with the US Treasury warning that the move risked damaging “the important spirit of economic partnership between the US and the EU”.	B	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes
However, speaking on Sunday at the start of the G20 summit, in the Chinese city of Hangzhou, Juncker rejected the idea that European authorities were unjustly singling out US companies and said the ruling was “clearly based on facts”.	B	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes
Commission investigations on taxation had mainly focused on European targets, he said, according to Reuters.	O	O
“This is not a decision against the United States of America,” Juncker told reporters.	B	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes
“It would be absurd to choose this territory of state taxation to attack the USA,” he added, according to AFP.	I	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes
“We are applying the rules … We are basing our decisions on facts and on the legislation.	I	EU orders Apple to repay $14.6bn in taxes
”    Europe, Apple, and the money burning a hole in Silicon Valley’s wallet	O	O
Both Apple and Ireland have said they will appeal against the EU ruling, which the Apple chief executive, Tim Cook, labelled “total political crap”.	B	EU orders Apple to repay $14.5bn in taxes
“They just picked a number from I don’t know where,” Cook said after Tuesday’s announcement.	I	EU orders Apple to repay $14.6bn in taxes
“In the year that the commission says we paid that tax figure, we actually paid $400m.	O	O
We believe that makes us the highest taxpayer in Ireland that year.	O	O
------------------------------------------------------
Guterres is appointed as next UN chief	Guterres	next UN chief	UN chief	UN	Guterres is appointed as next UN chief		
High hopes for new U.N. chief		
The General Assembly last week appointed by acclamation Antonio Guterres, former prime minister of Portugal, as the new United Nations secretary-general, replacing the outgoing Ban Ki-moon for a five-year term beginning in January.	O	O
The appointment followed a recommendation from the powerful Security Council, which chose Guterres after six rounds of straw polls conducted since July.	O	O
Guterres received 13 “encourages,” no “discourages” and two “no opinions” at the sixth straw poll held Oct. 5, during which color-coded ballot papers distinguishing five veto-wielding permanent members — China, France, Russia, Britain and the United States — from the 10 elected members of the council were introduced for the first time in this year’s selection process.	O	O
He was confirmed as the council’s choice the next day when a resolution recommending him to the General Assembly as the next U.N. chief was adopted unanimously.	O	O
In addition to his long career in national politics, Guterres is well-versed in the inner workings of the organization, having served as the head of the U.N. refugee agency for 10 years from 2005 to 2015.	B	Guterres
He is also known as a good communicator who is fluent in three of the five U.N. official languages — English, French and Spanish — in addition to his native Portuguese.	I	Guterres
His linguistic skills were a factor that helped his selection since these four languages represent the official languages of nine of the current council members.	I	Guterres
Also behind Guterres’ appointment was this year’s selection process, arguably the most transparent and inclusive in the U.N. ’s 71-year history.	B	Guterres is appointed as next UN chief
In response to the prevailing criticisms from general U.N. members and civil society that the previous process of choosing the secretary-general had been shrouded in secrecy and that important decisions had been made behind closed doors by the permanent members of the Security Council, this year’s process started with a joint letter from the presidents of the General Assembly and the Security Council inviting all U.N. members to submit the names of candidates with a view to picking the most suitable person for the top U.N. job.	O	O
Mindful of the views advocated by some member states that the next U.N. chief should come from Eastern Europe on the basis of geographical rotation or be a woman following eight male predecessors, the letter specifically encouraged the member states to “consider presenting women, as well as men, as candidates,” while noting “the regional diversity” in previous selections.	B	next UN chief
A total of 13 candidates, including seven women, were nominated, though three later dropped out of the race.	O	O
The candidates were scrutinized by the 193-member General Assembly during a series of public hearings and town hall meeting organized by the General Assembly president from April through July.	O	O
The Security Council also held separate private meetings with the candidates ahead of the six rounds of straw polls that took place from July through October.	O	O
Guterres emerged quickly as the most favorable candidate.	O	O
During the straw polls, he was the only candidate who consistently received “encouragements” from nine or more members, including the five permanent members — a requirement for anyone to be selected as the council’s recommended choice.	O	O
Ambassador Vitaly Churkin of Russia, the council’s rotating presidency for October, said after the sixth straw poll that his country was in a tough spot because Russia favored an East European candidate and wanted a woman candidate, but that in the end, “We chose the best candidate.”	B	next UN chief
While it is welcoming that the next secretary-general has been selected on the basis of merit with the blessing of all U.N. member states, Guterres faces a set of formidable challenges when he assumes office on Jan. 1, including Syria, international terrorism, refugees, North Korea, climate change and U.N. reform, just to name a few.	O	O
The first order of business will be to constitute his own Cabinet in the secretariat, paying due consideration to the competency and gender balance in senior-level posts.	O	O
Following his appointment as the ninth U.N. chief, Guterres told a packed General Assembly Hall that his priorities are to serve the most vulnerable people, particularly refugees and those in conflict zones.	O	O
The plight of socially and economically underprivileged people “makes me feel the acute responsibility to make human dignity the core of my work,” he said.	O	O
As for his role as U.N. chief, Guterres said that the secretary-general should act with humility, without arrogance, and work for the organization’s entire membership as “a convener, a mediator, a bridge-builder and a honest broker.”	B	UN chief
He knows that the power of the office of the secretary-general derives solely from moral authority as the messenger of peace and that support from the 193 U.N. member states is a prerequisite to being successful in dealing with the formidable issues facing him.	I	UN chief
If Guterres sticks to his words and gets the support he needs from member states, there is a good chance that he can be a strong and effective secretary-general capable of restoring the U.N. ’s credibility as the vanguard of world peace and stability.	B	Guterres
------------------------------------------------------
Guterres is appointed as next UN chief	Guterres	next UN chief	UN chief	UN	Guterres is appointed as next UN chief		
Antonio Guterres, the UN Secretary-General		
The next Secretary-General of the United Nations has pledged to combat terrorism and political populism, to promote gender equality and to seek a peaceful resolution to the Syrian conflict when he takes over the leadership of the organisation next year.	O	O
Antonio Guterres, the former Socialist Prime Minister of Portugal, was appointed to the role of UN chief on Thursday after a unanimous vote by the international body’s 193 member states.	O	O
Mr Guterres, 67, spent a decade as the UN’s High Commissioner for Refugees and is expected to be a more high-profile figure than the outgoing Secretary-General, South Korean Ban Ki-Moon, who is standing down after two terms.	B	Guterres
Mr Guterres, who was backed by every member of the UN Security Council, was one of 13 candidates for the position, including seven women.	O	O
The first former head of government to be named Secretary-General, he enjoyed a warm reception from the assembled officials following the vote, even as he reminded them of the “challenges” faced by the organisation, and the “limitations” of his position.	O	O
He promised to take a “humble approach” to “the dramatic problems of today’s complex world”.	O	O
His previous role saw him tackling refugee crises across the globe, not least in Syria, which remains the most pressing item on the UN agenda.	O	O
Having previously urged Western powers to take a greater role in helping refugees, he will now press for those governments to find a solution to the suffering of the Syrian people, which, he said, “breaks my heart”.	O	O
Following the precipitous breakdown of a recent ceasefire, the US and Russia are meeting for fresh talks on the Syrian war this weekend in Switzerland, along with regional and European powers.	O	O
“Whatever divisions might exist now it’s more important to unite,” Mr Guterres said.	O	O
“It’s high time to fight for peace.”	O	O
Mr Guterres was congratulated on his appointment by world leaders including US President Barack Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin.	B	Guterres is appointed as next UN chief
Mr Obama said “he had the character, vision and skills needed to lead the United Nations at this critical moment,” while Mr Putin called from the Kremlin to wish him success in his “important and demanding” role.	B	Guterres
In his speech, Mr Guterres also warned of the mutually reinforcing rhetoric of terror groups and of populist political movements – an apparent reference to the European far-right and to the rise of Donald Trump in the US.	O	O
“We must make sure that we are able to break these alliances between all those terrorist groups or violent extremists on one side, and the expression of populism and xenophobia on the other side,” he said.	O	O
------------------------------------------------------		
Guterres is appointed as next UN chief	Guterres	next UN chief	UN chief	UN	Guterres is appointed as next UN chief		
Security Council nominates Portugal's Guterres as U.N. chief		
The United Nations General Assembly on Thursday appointed Portugal's former Prime Minister Antonio Guterres as next UN secretary-general to succeed retiring Ban Ki-moon whose term expires at the end of this year.	O	O
The 193-member General Assembly adopted a resolution on his appointment by acclamation after Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin, Security Council president for October, reported to the Assembly on the council's unanimous recommendation of Guterres.	O	O
The five-year term for the secretary-general designate will start on Jan. 1, 2017 and end on Dec. 31, 2021, according to the resolution.	O	O
Guterres, a 67-year-old politician, served as UN High Commissioner for Refugees from June 2005 to December 2015.	O	O
Before joining the UN refugee agency, Guterres spent more than 20 years in government and public service.	O	O
He was the prime minister of Portugal from 1995 to 2002.	O	O
On his appointment, Guterres said he felt gratitude and humility as well as a profound sense of responsibility, while adding that "he is fully aware of the challenges the UN faces and the limitations surrounding the secretary-general.	B	Guterres is appointed as next UN chief
The dramatic problems of today's complex world can only inspire a humble approach - one in which the Secretary-General alone neither has all the answers, nor seeks to impose his views," said Guterres.	B	UN chief
One in which the secretary-general makes his good offices available, working as a convener, a mediator, a bridge-builder and an honest broker to help find solutions that benefit everyone involved, he added.	I	UN chief
Guterres expressed his gratefulness to the General Assembly and the Security Council for entrusting him with the position "in a remarkable demonstration of consensus and unity" and for the transparency and openness of the selection process.	B	Guterres is appointed as next UN chief
The incumbent UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said to the Assembly that Guterres not only brings "deep and solid political experience" and has acted as a lifeline for millions upon millions of people forced from homes over the past decade.	B	Guterres
Secretary-General-designate Antonio Guterres of Portugal, addresses the UN General Assembly at U.N. headquarters in New York, US, October 13, 2016.	O	O
He is a wonderful choice to steer this Organization as we build on the progress of the past decade while addressing the insecurity and uncertainties of today's world, said Ban.	B	Guterres
Representatives from five regional groups as well as the host country of the UN congratulated Guterres on his appointment and have pledged support for him to guide the UN in face of challenges ahead.	B	Guterres is appointed as next UN chief
------------------------------------------------------
U.S. troops are disciplined in Afghan hospital strike	U.S. troops	Afghan hospital strike	U.S.	Afghan	U.S. troops are disciplined in Afghan hospital strike
A slap on the wrist for deadly U.S. attack on hospital that killed 42 civilians		
The heavily redacted Pentagon report on last year's deadly attack on a Doctors Without Borders hospital in Kunduz, Afghanistan, affirms, as early accounts had suggested, that it was the result of a chain of errors, many of them avoidable.	B	Afghan hospital strike
The punishments for the perpetrators are administrative, and that none of those involved will face criminal prosecution for their misdeeds.	O	O
That is inadequate.	B	U.S. troops are disciplined in Afghan hospital strike
This attack, on a building complex that had been repeatedly reported to the military command as a hospital, lasted more than an hour, even as the crew of the AC-130 gunship expressed confusion over exactly what they were being asked to do, and uncertainty over the target.	O	O
And the attack continued even though Doctors Without Borders contacted American officials within 12 minutes of its onset.	O	O
Why did it continue.	O	O
Because, according to the Pentagon report, which was released Friday, the military officials couldn't confirm for themselves that they were firing at a hospital, not a building full of Taliban fighters.	O	O
We won't pretend to substitute our knowledge for the Pentagon's, but the military's own report suggests serious violations of the rules of war.	B	Afghan hospital strike
Gen. Joseph L. Votel, the head of the military's Central Command, acknowledged Friday that troops involved did not "comply with the rules of engagement in the law of armed conflict.	B	U.S. troops
Critics argue that such an egregious failure to follow the rules of engagement should have led to criminal charges, yet the Pentagon's recommended response is administrative discipline — reassignments, letters of reprimand, stalled and possibly ended careers.	B	U.S. troops are disciplined in Afghan hospital strike
------------------------------------------------------
U.S. troops are disciplined in Afghan hospital strike	U.S. troops	Afghan hospital strike	U.S.	Afghan	U.S. troops are disciplined in Afghan hospital strike
This Oct. 16, 2015, file photo shows the charred remains of the hospital after it was hit by a U.S. airstrike in Kunduz, Afghanistan.		
The Pentagon has disciplined about 16 military personnel, including a general officer, for their role in last year's mistaken airstrike on a hospital in Afghanistan that killed 42 people, a senior defense official said Thursday.	O	O
The punishments are considered administrative, said the official, who asked not to be named since the Pentagon has not formally announced the action.	O	O
The action does not include courts-martial, which are for more serious criminal charges, the official said.	O	O
A letter of reprimand or forced reassignment can effectively end a military career by making it difficult to get a promotion.	O	O
Gen. Joseph Votel, head of U.S. Central Command, which oversees the war in Afghanistan, is expected to announce the action Friday at a Pentagon briefing.	O	O
A military investigation into the Oct. 3 incident prompted a range of disciplinary actions.	O	O
One officer was suspended from command, six were sent to counseling, seven were issued letters of reprimand, and two were ordered to retraining courses, according to the Los Angeles Times, which first reported the results of the investigation.	O	O
This Oct. 16, 2015, file photo shows the charred remains of the hospital after it was hit by a U.S. airstrike in Kunduz, Afghanistan.	O	O
The airstrike occurred during an intense battle in Kunduz, after Taliban militants had seized the city in northern Afghanistan last fall.U.S. aircraft and Special Forces soldiers supported the Afghan troops during days of intense fighting before the militants were expelled.	O	O
During the battle in October, an Air Force AC-130 gunship struck the hospital, which was operated by Doctors Without Borders, an international aid organization.	O	O
A military report determined that the U.S. forces involved in the airstrike mistook the hospital for another compound that was serving as a Taliban headquarters.	O	O
“This was a tragic, but avoidable accident caused primarily by human error,” Gen.John Campbell, who commanded coalition forces in Afghanistan at the time, said in a briefing last year.	B	Afghan hospital strike
“The U.S. forces directly involved in this incident did not know the targeted compound was the (Doctors Without Borders) trauma center,” Campbell said.	I	Afghan hospital strike
------------------------------------------------------
U.S. troops are disciplined in Afghan hospital strike	U.S. troops	Afghan hospital strike	U.S.	Afghan	U.S. troops are disciplined in Afghan hospital strike
US: Strike on Afghanistan MSF hospital not a war crime		
The US military has said that a deadly air strike on a Doctors Without Borders (MSF) hospital in Afghanistan last year was a mistake and therefore not a war crime.	B	Afghan hospital strike
Technical and human error led to the attack, General Joseph Votel said on Friday as he presented the results of an internal investigation into the October 3 incident in the northern Afghan city of Kunduz.	B	Afghan hospital strike
At least 42 people, including 24 patients, 14 staff and four caretakers, were killed and 37 others wounded in the air strike, which destroyed the MSF hospital building and prompted widespread condemnation from human rights groups.	O	O
The personnel involved did not know that they were striking a medical facility, the investigation report concluded.	O	O
The hospital was mistaken for another building controlled by the Taliban, Votel told reporters at the Pentagon.	O	O
The intended target was an insurgent-controlled site which was approximately 400 metres away from the MSF Trauma Center.	O	O
The hospital was on a list of buildings not to target, but the aircraft crew did not have access to the list owing to problems with a radio system, he added.	O	O
The investigation determined that all members of both the ground force and the AC-130 air crew were unaware that the aircraft was firing on a medical facility throughout the engagement, Votel said.	O	O
The investigation ultimately concluded that this tragic incident was caused by a combination of human errors, compounded by process and equipment failures.	B	Afghan hospital strike
The label war crimes is typically reserved for intentional acts - intentionally targeting civilians or intentionally targeting protected objects or locations.	O	O
MSF said it was reviewing the report to determine if it addressed questions that remained after the attack, but the international medical charity said it was not satisfied with an investigation carried out only by the military rather than an independent body.	O	O
Today's briefing amounts to an admission of an uncontrolled military operation in a densely populated urban area, during which US forces failed to follow the basic laws of war," MSF President Meinie Nicolai said in a statement.	B	U.S. troops
It is incomprehensible that, under the circumstances described by the US, the attack was not called off.	I	U.S. troops
The US forces cannot ""escape their responsibilities on the battlefield simply by ruling out the intent to attack a protected structure""."	I	U.S. troops
Staff disciplinedSixteen military personnel, including a general officer, were singled out for discipline, but none will face criminal charges, Votel said.	O	O
Punishments included suspension and removal from command, letters of reprimand, counselling and retraining, the military said.	O	O
Five people were ordered out of Afghanistan.	O	O
Exact details about punishments and who was involved were withheld owing to privacy concerns.	O	O
The US will also make payments to the victims and their families and spend $5.7m on rebuilding the hospital, the DPA news agency reported.	O	O
The military was also instituting reforms to prevent such mistakes in the future, including changes into how its no-strike list is accessed.	O	O
US President Barack Obama had been briefed on the report, spokesman Josh Earnest said.	O	O
------------------------------------------------------
U.S. troops are disciplined in Afghan hospital strike	U.S. troops	Afghan hospital strike	U.S.	Afghan	U.S. troops are disciplined in Afghan hospital strike
Doctors Without Borders called for the attack to be named a warcrime		
The Pentagon has confirmed that 16 US military staff who bombed a hospital in Afghanistan last year have been disciplined.	O	O
The attack on the hospital in Kunduz last October left at least 42 people dead.	O	O
The Pentagon confirmed on Friday that the attack, authorized by General John Campbell, the US Commander in Afghanistan, was the result of human error and was not a war crime because it was “unintentional”.16 staff have either been suspended or received lesser sentences.	B	Afghan hospital strike
No one faces criminal charges.	O	O
It also said the Doctors Without Borders hospital, known by its French acronym MSF, was properly entered on a “no-strike” list yet the gunship crew did not have access to that list.	O	O
Army General Joseph Votel, commander at US Central Command, told reporters on Friday that there is a “constant effort” underway to review their processes and the aircraft that was used during the attack.	O	O
“This was not a systemic problem, this was a failure at that point,” he said, regarding a faulty radio antennae system on the plane that would have told the crew of no-strike areas.	O	O
Nato-backed Afghan forces were fighting with insurgents for control of the northern provincial capital one month after the Taliban seized the city.	O	O
The strike was authorized under the rules of “self-defence”.	O	O
Mr Votel insisted that when the air crew were notified they were firing at a hospital, they withdrew fire.	O	O
“There is a lot on the ground, it’s a fast moving situation.	O	O
We have young leaders trying to make the right decision in a heated combat and sometimes it comes up wrong,” he said.	O	O
After the bombs started to fall, panicked hospital staff called and send text messages asking the US forces to stop.	O	O
The plane crew took 17 minutes to react.	O	O
MSF also said it repeatedly gave its coordinates of its trauma center in Kunduz to the US military as late as 29 September to avoid being bombed.	O	O
This did not prevent the accident from happening just four days later.	O	O
------------------------------------------------------















